# Description

This assignment is to write, in pairs of students from the same seminar group, a short reflective review of the movie The Social Dilemma of at most 750 words. The basic aim of the assignment is to put you in the mindset of the assessor of your company case study, so that you can better understand how your essay will be evaluated. **Thus you are to critique the claims, arguments, evidence presented and conclusions made in the movie.** **The assignment also includes a reflective element to show how you have (personally) developed your ideas through watching this film – either by agreeing, or by disagreeing, with some of the points made.** Note that the movie covers a lot of ground; your review (as is the nature of movie reviews) will be selective in the issues discussed; there is no requirement to comprehensively cover the whole movie. Importantly, your movie review cannnot overlap with your student seminar and your company case study, however you can draw on the discussions in your seminar when writing your review.

The review should focus on the ethics of social media and include discussion of two IT-related issues. **An IT-related issue is one where IT plays a central, not incidental, role in the framing of the issue.** **Furthermore, the discussion should focus on the IT-related aspects of the issue** (as a hypothetical example, it may be that social media facilitates organized crime; your discussion should be about how social media facilitates organized crime, rather than on the organized crime itself). Similarly, though there is a lot you could say about the style and acting in the film, this is not the main concern of your review, except insofar as the style impacts on the audience reception and understanding of the claims made in the movie. **Your review should also have a concluding paragraph that gives a final overall judgement on the movie's basic claims.**

The review will take the form of a "he said/she said" article where one reviewer of the pair takes a positive stance towards the film's discussion of one issue (and summarizes the argument, evidence and conclusion), while the second reviewer takes a negative stance towards a different issue, one where the claim of the film is wrong or misleading, or the reviewer disagrees with the film's perspective or analysis and evaluation of the issue (and explains why), followed by a concluding summary assessment. Explanations and evaluations of the arguments in the movie should be made using the ethics theories discussed in this course (viz. duty-based and consequential). The form of this review mimics the style of At The Movies when each reviewer presents their point of view, first one, then the other. **Though it might be easier to write the review if one student in the pair acts as the positive reviewer and the other as the negative reviewer, this is not strictly necessary because there is only one mark assigned for the whole review, and both students receive the same mark. The concluding assessment is an attempt to reconcile the two views.**

The discussion of each issue should be presented as a personal reflection of the reviewers (again, this may be easier to write if one student takes the positive angle, the other the negative). The idea is to show what you have learnt or how your ideas on the ethical issues developed or changed from watching this film and reflecting on the issues, arguments and conclusions of the film in the light of the ethics theories discussed in the course. **Therefore, you should choose either issues you were unaware of before watching the film (and say so), or issues where an insightful comment, claim or argument from the film enhanced your understanding of the issue (perhaps in a negative way, because you disagreed with the film's perspective).** In both cases, carefully consider and evaluate the claims, arguments, evidence and conclusions presented in the film. Reflective writing is a specific kind of writing suitable for documenting your intellectual development. See UNSW's guide to reflective writing which includes some examples for more information.